So far, we introduced three types of wallets: non-deterministic wallets,
sequential deterministic wallets, and hierarchical deterministic wallets.
Now, that we understand hashing and private keys better,
let's return to these wallets and discuss how
they're generated and when to use each type.
First, let's focus on non-deterministic wallets.
Non-deterministic wallets were created during the first implementation of Bitcoin client.
These are random wallets,
which means that the keys are generated randomly,
and there's no way to determine how they were derived?
Non-deterministic wallets can be thought of as a collection of
randomly generated private keys that have no association with each other.
In short, a random number generate a private key,
which is used to generate a public key,
which gives us the wallet address.
For privacy, it's best practice to generate new wallet addresses for each transaction.
So, no one can track links between the addresses.
Now, based on this logic,
every time a new key is generated,
you need to backup the wallet,
so as not to lose the newly generated private key,
and this seems like quite a chore.
So, why even bother with non-deterministic wallets.
Well, there are situations where wallets might be generated for backend services,
using private keys that are not derived from a seed.
The opposite of non-deterministic wallets aka random wallets are deterministic wallets.
In a deterministic wallet, all addresses,
private keys, and public keys can be traced back to the original seed.
So, there's a purpose behind each of these IDs and nothing is random,
because they can be determined.
So, deterministic, determined get it?